# Final_Project

# Self-Assessment
For the first segment I  created a machine learning model mock up. It was a diagram that explains how it will work concurrently with the rest of the project steps. After creating the mock up I had to intergrate the data from the circle role to transform the mockup database into a full database. Next, we had to train the model to see if the code actually worked. To train and validate the model, we split the target sets and features into two sets. The training set will help us identify the relationships between the various features in the model and the target set. The testing set will help us determine the validity of the model. For the final segment, I submitted the machine learning model, the description and working code. 

The techinical aspect of building a machine learning model from scratch had me slightly intimated. However with the help of my teammates I was able to discuss any obstacle I ran into. I also utilize "AskBCS" as well. The TAs were very helpful in carving out all the details for the project. 

# Team Assessment
Our communication policy was very simple. We took advantage of our weekly class zoom calls. On each monday we gameplanned for that weeks segment. We would read over the rubric and point out anything that we did not comprehend about our individual roles. We also made it a point to understand each other roles that way we had a thorough understanding of the project as a whole. Once we understood our individual roles we would pitch our ideas on how to best complete our task. We would critize each other ideas until they stood on a solid foundation. The following class we would begin putting the pieces together. Now that we have everything on paper each teammate would once again present what they had completed so far. Soon saturday would come and we would finalize our assignments together on zoom. Furthermore, being able to ask each other questions about how we could improve our roles gave us a since of unity. I wouldnt do anything differently our team meshed extremely well together.

Our strenght as a team would definetely be our ability to critque each other. We never allowed our egos to get in the way of the bigger picture. The team was very open minded during the entire project. A few tips I would suggest is exhausting all resources. We constantly asked questions to the TAs/ASKBCS no matter how dumb they may appear. Google was our best friend if we couldnt decide on a matter amongst ourselves we would surf the internet for the best possible answer. Last but not least is keep it simple. You do not have to reinvent the wheel. Your job is to analyze the data and improve it.

# Summary of project 
A manager at the bank is disturbed with more and more customers leaving their credit card services. They would really appreciate if we could predict for them who is gonna get churned so they can proactively go to the customer to provide them better services and turn customers decisions in the opposite direction. Customer Churn (customer attrition) is the most challenging problem for Banks.

We Acquired the dataset from Kaggle. We used SQL to join the dataset and store the data. Some of the libraries used were Scikit, pandas, numpy and matpoltlib. We Choose to based our model off 9 basic columns. I narrowed the columns down to five main features. We believe those five features to be the driving factors for customer Attrition. We used those features to single out trends and behaviors. Then turned the Attrited customers into a individual dataset.We Choose Random oversampling because we based our model off of 16% of the overall data we were provided. The 16% of the data were the Attrited customers data.We did not make any changes to the original machine learning model. The model can be modified within reason to grasp a higher accuracy score.The Accuracy score reported a %50 chance to predict the clients that are likely to churn. Overall there are 16.1% of customers who have churned with 83.9% of Existing customers who have not. Please view the Graphs below.Durning our analysis we noticed that Blue card customers are more likely to churn than in any other card category. Customers with a income of less than 40k, customers that are married and customers who are graduates are more likely to churn.There are 8,500 existing customers and 1,627 attrited customers with 930 are female and 697 are male. You will notice that woman are more likely to churn than men.
